Let's talk about various ways to use Git.
We can use Git on the command line, so we open a terminal or command prompt window to
execute Git commands.
This is the fastest and sometimes the easiest way to get the job done.
That's why a lot of people use the command line.
Now if you don't like the command line, well, you're in luck, because most modern code
editors and IDEs have built-in support for basic Git features.
For example, in VS Code, we have this source control panel which gives us the essential
Git features.
There are also extensions available for bringing additional Git features.
For VS Code, the most popular extension is Git Lens.
It brings a ton of Git features in VS Code.
There are also graphical user interfaces specifically made for using Git.
Here on the Git website, you can find the complete list of these tools for different
platforms.
We have tools for Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, and iOS.
Out of all these, the two most popular tools are Git Kraken and Source Tree.
Git Kraken is my personal favorite GUI tool for Git.
It's beautifully designed, it works across different platforms, and it integrates with
other Git Kraken products such as Git Kraken boards for issue tracking, and Git Kraken
timelines for project management.
It's free for open source projects, but for commercial projects, you have to pay an annual
fee.
Just to let you know, I'm not an affiliate of Git Kraken, I'm just a fan.
The other option is Source Tree.
It's completely free, but it's only available for Windows and Mac.
So if you're a Linux user, you have to use Git Kraken or another GUI tool.
In this course, we'll be spending most of our time on the command line for a couple
of reasons.
The first reason is that pretty much all of these GUI tools have some limitations.
They support the Git commands that people use most of the time.
So even if you want to use a GUI tool, there are times you would have to roll up your sleeves
and get back to the command line to get the job done.
The other reason is that the command line is always available, but there are situations
where a GUI tool may not be available to you.
You might connect to a server remotely, and you may not have permission to install a GUI
tool.
If you don't know how to use the command line, then you're stuck.
In practice, a lot of people, including myself, use both the command line and a GUI tool,
and that's what I'm going to show you in this course.
There are times that it really makes sense to use a GUI tool and not the command line,
but there are other times that using the command line is faster and easier, so we'll use the
command line.
At the end of the day, you should use the right tool for the job.
Don't be like this guy.
You probably know him.
Our popular superstar developer called John Smith.
He thinks he's better than everyone else because he does everything in the command
line.
He never uses a GUI tool and he looks down at people who do.
Well, let him think whatever he wants if that's what makes him happy.
Who cares?
So, we'll be spending most of our time on the command line, but when it makes sense
to use a GUI tool, I'll be showing you examples in VS Code and Git Kraken because those are
the most popular tools.
Now, if you have never worked with a command line before, don't worry.
I'm going to hold your hands and teach you everything step by step.
It's a lot easier than you think.
So next, we're going to install Git.
